# Password Bank
This is my attempt at a basic encryption method that utilizes ASCII values

## How Does It Work?
Each character has an associated ASCII value.
For example, "A" has a value of 65 and "b" has a value of 98.
What the program does, is it takes the string you want to encrypt, and works with one letter at a time.
For each letter, the program chooses a random number between -20 and 20. 
Then, the program adds that random number to the ASCII value of the character in the string.
Finally, the new character is generated by turning the ajusted ASCII value back into a character.
The new ASCII character and the random number must be remembered, so the program has two data files, data.json, and key.json.
Each new character is put into data.json, while the random number is stored in key.json.

To decrypt a word, we do the reverse.
We read the new ASCII character from data.json, and the random number in key.json.
Then, the program gets the ASCII value of the new character, and subtracts the random number from it.
Now, the program gets the ASCII character of that result.

### Example
Say we wanted to encrypt the word "House".
The program will take the first letter, "H" and get the letter's ASCII value (72).
Now, a random number is generated. Let's say the number is 10.
The program will now add that random number (10) to the first letter's ASCII value (72 + 10)
We can take that new ASCII value (82) and convert it back to a character, which in this case would be "R".
The program will store the random number we generated (10) and the new ASCII character ("R") in the appropriate .json files.

Now, the program looks at the second letter, "o", which has a value of 111.
We generate a random number, this time we'll say it's -5.
We add the values together (111 + (-5))
We take the new ASCII value and turn it into a character, which would be "j" in this case.
Now, the program stores "j" in data.json, and -5 in key.json.

This process repeats until all characters have been processed.

Now we want to convert this data back into the string "House".
Lets assume that data.json looks like this:
```
[
  [
    "R", 
    "j", 
    "g", 
    "f", 
    "c"
  ]
]
```
And key.json looks like this:
```
[
  [
    10, 
    -5, 
    -14,
    -13,
    -2
  ]
]
```

The program will take "R" and 10 to compute the original character.
It finds the ASCII value of "R" (82) and subracts 10 from it.
In this case, the resulting value would be 72.
Now, we turn that result back into an ASCII character ("H").

Next, we take "j" and -5.
The ASCII value of "j" is 106, so we subract -5 from that (106 - (-5))
The result in this case would be 111, which turns into the character "o".

The program repeats this until there are no more characters left to decode.
Once it's done, the result will be the string "House".

### License
MIT
